## HW 9 Part I
What pattern or patterns does SASE use (other than `Observer`)? Justify your
answer.

SASE can make use of the prototype pattern. By having a prototype come along
with the event, actions can fill in only information they care about, and the
sender of SASE can prefill the rest of the prototype. Imagine a case where a
user typed their username in a field. The observer creates a clone of a
prototype object with the information it knows, and hands it to the `Subject`.
The subject would then change just the username, because that is all it knows,
and return the object back to the `Observer`.

SASE can also make use of the template method. If there are several different
messages that all differ in a step, it can use the template method to reconcile
all the differences. Say there was a general pattern for what should happen when
an event sends the SASE, it should read some field and save the field to a
database. Using template method you can allow subclasses to override what field
they care about, and what database they want to connect to.

SASE could also make use of the Decorator pattern. If some detail to the message
was the same across different messages, a decorator would allow the ability to
write their similarities in one location, and decorate whatever needs it. If
messages differed in their specific event, a special Event decorator could be
used that would decorate the specific event to the message.

## HW 9 Part II
Make a convincing case for Command and Adapter for both being valid patterns for
`ActionListener`.

### Adapter
The Adapter pattern would be useful for `ActionListener` so that `Subject`s can
be written without any attention to the specifics of the observer. It results in
different types of JComponent all working similarly.

### Command
It would be useful to specify what to do with an action separate to the thing
observing the action. Command allows decoupling the implementation logic from the wiring
logic. If multiple actions result in the same thing, command would allow for
reuse. If multiple Observers did a database transaction ritual, that ritual can
be placed in a Command to keep the implementation from repeating itself.


