---
layout: post
title:  "Proxy"
---

# Proxy 

# Intent 
Provid a ssurrogate or a placeholder for another object to control access to it.

# Strucutre 
Looks like decorator
...

# Four major variants

## Remote Proxy
Stands in for an object that lives in a different address space:
  
* another jvm
* another node on a distributed (networked) system
* &c


hides the fact that the subject doesn't exist in the local address space
* encapsulates the protocols necessary for communication between the address spaces  
    * hence, that communication is transparent to the client

## Virtual Proxy
allows one to delay the creation of expensibe objects until such time as they are really
needed (if ever). 

for example, using a proxy of an image in a page layout/desktop publishing application.

This allows the application to delay loading the decompressed image into memory.

## Protection proxy
Specifically oriented towards controlling access to the subject. useful when we want to
add the notion of permissions or limits to an object that doesn't already have them.

* for example, limitng the number of pages that are passed to a (nurmall unrestred)
  PrintQueue


## Smart References
Replacement for "naked pointers"

* can perform addition actions when an object is accessed
* can be used to share a single object, while making it appear as if there were many (all
  with the same initial state).
  * when a mutator is called on the proxy it clones the sahred state and modifies the
    cloned data (thus implementing copy-on-write semantics).
* can be used to maintain a count of the number of things referencng the shared object.
    * when the count reaches 0... GC
* can be used to load a persisten object into memory when it is first used
    * as opposed to frst referenced
* can be used to provide synchronization: ensure the object is "locked" before access is
  granted

# Note: copy-on-write semanticscan sig. reduce the cost of "copying" heavy-weibh object,
because the work is deferred until absultiy necessary.
    * this technique is widely used  by hacky code


