---
layout: post 
title:  "Observer" 
---

# Intent 
Define a one-to-many dependency between objects, so that when one object changes
it state, all the dependents are notified and update automatically.

# Initial Comments
By "dependent" we don't mean "tightly coupled" What it does mean is that when
object A's state changes object B (C, & D) may need to perform some action in
response.

// Picture

the *Subject* allows *Observers* to dynamicall attach/detach themselves from the
list of objects to be notified when *Subject*'s state changes.

# What happens when the _Subject_ has multiple state elements?  
An *Observer* may be interested in just a _subset_ of the *Subject* state
elements

# Notification models  
* push: the *Subject* includes in the notification, info about what has changed
* pull: the *Observer* must query the Subject to determine what has changed.

-----
  
# Lecture #32 2013.11.13
  
# Administrivia 
Read: mediator (273)
Read: undoiKPN.pdf  


# Observer (293) Cont.
## How many _Subjects_ can an _Observer_ observe?
When an *Observer* can watch more than one *Subject*  

* it must be able to distinguis which *Subject* is the source of a notification
* one way to accomplish this is topass a reference to the *Subject* as part of
  the notification.
  
* could also us distinct notification methods


## What happens when a _Client_ performs several state changing ops on a
_Subject_?

  
If we don't do something to prevent it => notification cascade
* each and every op will cause all of the *Observers* to be notified (this may
  be desired)  
* in many cases ( if not most) it is not desirable because it is inefficient.
  The *Observers* may only need to be notified once the _sequence_ of ops is
  completed.
    * con: the *Client* must be aware of the fact it is interacting with an
      _observable_ object  
    * con: requires the programmer to remember to call `notifyObserversNow()`  
        * easy to forget to do it
    * pro: avoids the need to do many notifications when one would suffice

## Need to avoid cycles
when A is observed by B, B by C, and C by A, we have a _cycle_
* must ensure that any change to A|B|C doesn't result in an endless cycle of
  updates

## Java note
Java has a class `Observable` [implements the machiner to mintain an `Observer`
list and handle notifications] and an interface `Observer` to make it simpler to
implement the pattern. Alas it isn't very useful... because Java doesn't support
multiple class inheritance.

## A variation: SASE
Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope.  
The goal is to eliminate some of the inefficiencies of the observer pattern.  

Stock Observer  

1. an `Observer` registers itself with the `Subject`  
2. The `Subject`'s state changes [send changed to itself]  
3. Send update to all `Observers`    
4. The Observer receives the update, and determines whether or not it is of
   interest. [either by examining the supplied arguments or querying the
   `Subject`]



SASE  

1. register an observer of the subject by providing four items:
* reveiver (the `Observer`, itself)
* event (the aspect of the `Subject` of interest)
* message ("Selector" - identifies which operation the `Subject` should invoke
  upon the `Observer`)
* details ( the parameters that should accompany the message)

2. some aspect of the `Subject` changes [send _triggerEvent:_ to self]
  
3. Send the "letters" that are accociated with that paritcular kind of event  
4. execute _message_ with the _details_


## SASE advantages over the stock `Observer`  
* no spurious updates
* no update notification interpreter  
    * the `Observer` has specified the _selector_ and _details_ at the time of
      registration
    * simple `Observer` code: there is no need 

## HW 9 Part I
What pattern or patterns does SASE use (other than `Observer`)? Justify your
answer.

-----

## Example: the humble JButton
In order to make a `JButton` do something, one must add an `ActionListener`  

* a single `JComponent` (of which `JButton` is an example) may have multiple
  listeners.

  What pattern is being used here? Observer

  Observer : `ActionListener`
  Subject  : `JComponent`

What pattern, if any, is the `ActionListener` implementing?
  
* Command 
* Adapter

## HW 9 Part II
Make a convincing case for Command and Adapter for both bein validanswers.

# Term project: 
Font terms
* Kerning
* leading



